BYOVPC AWS follow-up (#146)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/get-started/pages/cluster-types/byoc/aws/vpc-byo-aws.adoc

= Create a BYOVPC Cluster on AWS
:description: Connect Redpanda Cloud to your existing VPC for additional security.
:page-aliases: get-started:cluster-types/byoc/vpc-byo-aws.adoc
:page-cloud: true
:page-beta: true

include::shared:partial$feature-flag.adoc[]

With a standard BYOC cluster, Redpanda manages the VPC lifecycle. For additional security, you can deploy the Redpanda glossterm:data plane[] into your existing shared VPC and manage the VPC lifecycle yourself. 

> When you create a BYOC cluster, you specify your VPC and service account. The Redpanda Cloud agent doesn't create any new resources or alter any settings in your account. With BYOVPC: 

Reviewer: Instead of "When you create a BYOC cluster, you specify your VPC and service account." Do you mean BYOVPC?

Define a JSON file called `byovnet.auto.tfvars.json` inside the Terraform directory that contains information about the VPC. Optionally, you can enable PrivateLink. For example: 

```json
cat > byoc.auto.tfvars.json <<EOF
{
  "aws_account_id": "${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}",
  "region": "${AWS_REGION}",
  "common_prefix": "${REDPANDA_COMMON_PREFIX}",
  "condition_tags": {
  },
  "default_tags": {
  },
  "ignore_tags": [
  ],
  "vpc_id": "${AWS_VPC_ID}",
  "zones": [],
  "enable_private_link": true,
  "create_rpk_user": true,
  "force_destroy_cloud_storage": true
}
EOF

```

== Deploy Terraform

Initialize, plan, and apply Terraform to set up the AWS infrastructure:

```
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

Note the output values that the `terraform apply` command displays. You can also get these values by running `terraform output`. The ARNs (Amazon Resource Names) output  values are necessary in later steps.

You can set additional environment variables that extract the output for AWS resources and set your Redpanda credentials. For example:

```bash

> export REDPANDA_RG_ID=

Reviewer: Should we say more about where to find `REDPANDA_RG_ID`, `REDPANDA_CLIENT_ID`, and `REDPANDA_CLIENT_SECRET`?

= Create a BYOVPC Cluster on AWS
:description: Connect Redpanda Cloud to your existing VPC for additional security.
:page-aliases: get-started:cluster-types/byoc/vpc-byo-aws.adoc
:page-cloud: true
:page-beta: true

include::shared:partial$feature-flag.adoc[]

> With a standard BYOC cluster, Redpanda manages the VPC lifecycle. For additional security, you can deploy the Redpanda glossterm:data plane[] into your existing shared VPC and manage the VPC lifecycle yourself. 

Author: Hmm I see it: https://deploy-preview-146--rp-cloud.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/get-started/cluster-types/byoc/aws/vpc-byo-aws/

== Configure Terraform

NOTE: You may want to configure https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/remote[remote state^] for this Terraform. For simplicity, these instructions assume local state.

Define a JSON file called `byovnet.auto.tfvars.json` inside the Terraform directory that contains information about the VPC. Optionally, you can enable PrivateLink. For example: 

```json
cat > byoc.auto.tfvars.json <<EOF
{
  "aws_account_id": "${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}",
  "region": "${AWS_REGION}",
  "common_prefix": "${REDPANDA_COMMON_PREFIX}",
  "condition_tags": {
  },
  "default_tags": {
  },
  "ignore_tags": [
  ],
  "vpc_id": "${AWS_VPC_ID}",
  "zones": [],
  "enable_private_link": true,
  "create_rpk_user": true,
  "force_destroy_cloud_storage": true
}
EOF

```

== Deploy Terraform

Initialize, plan, and apply Terraform to set up the AWS infrastructure:

```
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

> Note the output values that the `terraform apply` command displays. You can also get these values by running `terraform output`. The ARNs (Amazon Resource Names) output  values are necessary in later steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the output values that the `terraform apply` command displays. You can also get these values by running `terraform output`. The ARN (Amazon Resource Name) output  values are necessary in later steps.
```

You can set additional environment variables that extract the output for AWS resources and set your Redpanda credentials. For example:

```bash

> export REDPANDA_RG_ID=

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export REDPANDA_RG_ID=<Retrieve the id from the URL of the Resource Group when accessing within Redpanda Cloud>
```

Hopefully this makes it more explicit. Or perhaps we can pull out how to get Resource Group Id in the paragraph above. This was not intuitive to me.

}
----

== Create a Redpanda cluster

. Create environment variables for cluster information, like the version, tier, and availability zones. 
+
```bash

> export AWS_ZONES='["use-az1", "use-az2", "use-az3"]'

Reviewer: Should we be specifying these specific zones or that specific tier? Or is there a place we can direct the user to find the answers they need?

Author: @david-yu Can you help with this one?

Reviewer 3: We can use these as a reference, but we should direct users to find AWS availability zones here: https://docs.redpanda.com/api/cloud-api/#overview

Author: Added this tip: https://deploy-preview-146--rp-cloud.netlify.app/redpanda-cloud/get-started/cluster-types/byoc/aws/vpc-byo-aws/#create-cluster

== Create cluster resources

> To create the initial cluster resources, first log in to Redpanda Cloud with `rpk cloud login`, and then run `rpk cloud byoc aws apply`. This creates an autoscaling group, an agent VM, and the following resources:

Reviewer 3: We need to also pass in the REDPANDCA_CLIENT_ID and REDPANDA_CLIENT_SECRET and also the REDPANDA_ID env variables to the `rpk cloud` commands bleow.

Author: Thanks, please review it again! I also edited the check cluster status step a bit.

Reviewer 3: Looks good thank you!

 -H "accept: application/json"\
 -H "content-type: application/json" \
 -H "authorization: Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN"
```

== Tear down resources

To delete the Redpanda cluster with the Cloud API, run:

```bash
export REDPANDA_ID=$(curl -X DELETE "https://api.redpanda.com/v1beta2/clusters/${REDPANDA_ID}" \
 -H "accept: application/json"\
 -H "content-type: application/json" \
 -H "authorization: Bearer ${BEARER_TOKEN}" | jq -r '.operation.resource_id')
 

> rpk cloud byoc aws destroy --redpanda-id ${REDPANDA_ID}

Reviewer: The user needs to wait for the above operation to complete before they can run `rpk cloud byoc aws destroy`

```

> To destroy the AWS VPC and associated resources with the the AWS CLI, run:

Reviewer: I don't think this delete-vpc command should be included, the customer created it, it's on them to delete it (and it's probably not something they want to do) and that profile is unique to us `605419575229` is our own account id

Example retrieving cluster:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://api.redpanda.com/v1beta2/clusters/${REDPANDA_ID}" \
 -H "accept: application/json"\
 -H "content-type: application/json" \
 -H "authorization: Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN"
```

> == Delete cluster

Reviewer 3: Could you make these bash formatted like the other commands from above as well?
